- Part1--
GUEST: As far as I know, it's an 1896 salesman's model of a Case Agitator threshing machine. And that's the original box that it was set for 86 years on a shelf in. Where that guy got it from, I don't know.

APPRAISER: And how did you happen to come by it?

GUEST: About eight years ago, I'd seen it for the first time. A guy just said, "You've got to see this." And I wanted to buy it off him, and he said no. He said, "Let's just put it back on the shelf." And about a couple of months ago, he calls up and I got it.

APPRAISER: Really?

GUEST: Yeah.

APPRAISER: Tell me, what did you pay for it?

GUEST: I gave $3,500 for it.

APPRAISER: Well, it is a Case thresher. J.I. Case went into business in 1844, and they were one of the great thresher machine makers. They started off obviously much smaller scale than this, and this was sort of the ultimate thresher. So the bundles go in here, and the chains pull them up, and this mechanism cuts the strings so everything goes down in here.

GUEST: Through the cylinder.

APPRAISER: Here, it goes into the agitator, which separates the oats from the chaff. The oats go down and they come up this tube, it weighs it, and it tells you how many bushels they got, goes out in here, out of the tube and into the wagon.

GUEST: Correct.

APPRAISER: And the chaff goes out on a stacker off into the field, which actually goes out that way.

GUEST: Right.

APPRAISER: It's an extraordinary piece of machinery. It started in Racine, Wisconsin, ended up... I think they were building them in Chicago, even, but this is absolutely fantastic. I love salesman's samples. What's great about a salesman's sample is it is functional. And we can also see in here, you can go inside and actually see the mechanism so when they show this to the farmer, they can show him exactly how it's going to work. That's the beauty of these things. And here it is in the original crate so they could ship it off to agricultural shows and show exactly how it worked. I love toys when they're in the original boxes, but to have something like this in the original box, and it still has the shipping tags over here. Well, salesman's samples do very well at auction. Agricultural salesman's samples are among the best at auction.

This is one of the best, if not the best, agricultural salesman's sample I have ever seen. Some of the things, though, that can affect value are size. There's a lot of people who can't handle this. So I'm going to say, at auction, I'm going to have kind of a wide range… but my estimate on this, an auction value would be somewhere between $10,000 and $20,000, and I think it would be closer to the $20,000 than the $10,000.

GUEST: Appreciate that!

APPRAISER: And I really appreciate your bringing it in, because it wasn't easy.

- Part2--
GUEST: I brought a toy that actually belonged to my father. He was born in 1927. And so it was a toy that he had in his childhood. We didn't know he had these toys until after he passed away.

APPRAISER: Okay.

GUEST: And then my mother distributed the, the four toys. This happened to be the one that I was able to get. So... I got to choose first, before my two sister siblings. But I am the oldest daughter, so it's okay.

APPRAISER: Okay.

GUEST: (chuckles)

APPRAISER: So, on the gas tank here, we have what is a "T-C-O," and that stands for Tipp & Company. Tipp & Co. or just Tippco. And they were a German tin toy maker. This toy would have been made in the mid-'30s. And Germany-- we went to war shortly thereafter. So this toy in particular would not have had a very long production run.

GUEST: Okay.

APPRAISER: That most likely is contributing to how rare this toy is.

GUEST: Sure.

APPRAISER: Um, in addition...

GUEST: Hmm.

APPRAISER:...a lot of the Tippco motorcycles are... much smaller. Um, this is about 12 inches or so. The more common size we see for a large Tippco motorcycle is about nine inches. And then they make an even smaller one at seven inches.

GUEST: Right.

APPRAISER: The large size of it really makes this a show... a show stopper. This is a nice motorcycle. It has a wind-up motor on the side here, which would propel it. So winding this would drive the rear wheel. You could set your front wheel to go in a circle or a straight motion. And it was just a s... a little wind-up floor toy that could kind of scoot along. Do you have any idea of what a toy like this could be worth today?

GUEST: No, other than my neighbor, who was a toy collector, looked at it and I don't, I don't remember how much he... It seemed like a lot of money

that he thought it was worth at that moment.

APPRAISER: Okay.

GUEST: (chuckles)

APPRAISER: Um, how much did he think it was worth at that time?

GUESET: I want to say, like, $1,000, maybe.

APPRAISER: Okay.

GUEST: You know, maybe a little more.

APPRAISER: Well, I'm happy to report that, uh, this toy is worth much more than that. So, it's good that you kept it.

GUEST: Good.

APPRAISER: It is all original. All the tinplate is correct. All of the lithography is correct. I've actually only ever seen one other example of this toy.

GUEST: Mm.

APPRAISER: The estimate I would conservatively place on this piece would be $15,000 to $25,000.

GUEST: Oh, my goodness. Make me cry. (laughs) Oh, my goodness. My dad would flip over, wouldn't he? (laughs) That's wonderful. Thank you.

APPRAISER: A couple years ago, one had gone to auction. Uh, it had an estimate of $15,000 to $25,000, and it finished at just over $40,000.

GUEST: Oh, my goodness. I think of my sweet dad, what he would think. This toy, he... you know, held back for so many years. So...

APPRAISER: Sure.

GUEST: Thank you.

APPRAISER: And now, looking back, it was good that you didn't get to play with it. With your brothers and sisters because...

GUEST: Yes, yes. We'd have wrecked it. (laughs)

APPRAISER: Here it is, preserved.


--Part3--
GUEST: This is a pump cart that was manufactured by Buddy L toys in Moline, Illinois. And my father-in-law's uncle was a toy designer there. And this is a prototype. It was never put into production, we're guessing because it's pretty dangerous. (chuckles):

APPRAISER: Okay.

GUEST: It's very tippy, and when the handle gets moving at any speed, it's difficult to control. It's just the right length where you could smack a child under the chin.

APPRAISER: Right. Frederick A. Lundahl. His company started in 1910. He actually made auto parts. He worked with the farm machine companies. In about the 1920s, there was a downturn in needing the parts. And so he had a five-year-old son...

GUEST: Hm. ...

APPRAISER: and decided to take some of that scrap metal...

GUEST: Mm-hmm.

APPRAISER: ...and make a good, sturdy toy that was educational...

GUEST: Mm-hmm.

APPRAISER: ...in that it had working parts that the kids could learn from, they could have fun, and it wouldn't fall apart. His son's name was Arthur, but he went by Buddy.

GUEST: Oh, okay.

APPRAISER: And the L, of course, for Lundahl. This toy is made out of the heavy pressed steel...

GUEST: Oh.

APPRAISER: ...which Buddy L was known for. On the bottom, we have a patent number. It was given to Frederick Lundahl for a velocipede.

GUEST: Oh!

APPRAISER: And a velocipede is just a human-powered land vehicle. When you pull up the patent information, the illustrations show that while this probably is a prototype, this is not the first. This is a slightly different product.

GUEST: Oh!

APPRAISER: They had a rectangular base instead of a shaped base. It was four wheels rather than three wheels.

GUEST: All right.

APPRAISER: And it had two handles.

GUEST: Oh.

APPRAISER: So if you think this is dangerous for one child, can you imagine... (laughs) ...one child on each end, with one going backwards down a hill?

GUEST: No, I can't imagine.

APPRAISER: So there were some changes that were made. This piece actually did go into production.

GUEST: Oh, it did?

APPRAISER: This piece would have been made in 1929. Your family probably were the test for this particular piece...

GUEST: (laughs) Could be.

APPRAISER: ...as they went flying down the hills and tipping over.

GUEST: Yeah!

APPRAISER: The actual pieces that went into production and were sold were over a foot wider at the base...

GUEST: Mm, mm.

APPRAISER: ...and the handle was actually four inches shorter. I would put an auction value on this piece of somewhere between $6,000 and $8,000.

GUEST: (gasps, laughs) W, whoa! (both laughing)

APPRAISER: So hopefully nobody got their teeth too badly cracked with this one.

GUEST: (laughs) I have to say, I am really amazed.

APPRAISER: What were you expecting?

GUEST: I thought maybe $500 or $600. Yeah, yeah.


--Part4--
GUEST: This model was a gift from Errett Lobban Cord in 1931 to my grandfather, Lou Manning.

My grandfather commissioned the Elgin Watch Company to make a model identical to this to be presented to E.L.

Cord of the Auburn Automobile Company.

APPRAISER: Now what relationship did Manning have to Mr. Cord?

GUEST: They were partners, business partners, and they together purchased a defunct automobile company called Auburn Automobile Manufacturing in Auburn, Indiana.

They produced three vehicles that they wanted to really stand out.

There was the Auburn, the Duesenberg, and the Cord automobile, and they were way ahead of their time.

This is a L-29 Cabriolet Cord.

APPRAISER: And it's made by?

GUEST: The Auburn Automobile Company.

APPRAISER: Now, this is the front-wheel drive car, and a very fast one, too.

GUEST: Very, very fast.

The first front-wheel drive prototype of its type ever produced.

APPRAISER: So there were two of these.

You say your grandfather made one for Mr. Cord, and then how did this one happen to be made?

GUEST: Well, I think Mr.

Cord decided he would return the favor, and asked them to make another one for Lou.

APPRAISER: I see.

Now as I understand it, the first one made is absolutely pristine, it's in a case in the Cord Museum with plates identifying it as being owned to Mr. Cord.

Well, it's absolutely fabulous, and I have to say it's one of the most wonderful things I've seen at the ROADSHOW in many, many years.

And what's amazing is the level of detail is just astounding.

The rumble seat works, fully upholstered.

But what's really astounding is right here you have the machined aluminum dashboard, all these dials just appropriate.

The doors open with all the handles and latches, and even the windows open.

Has all the features that made the Auburn a desirable car to modern collectors.

The side-mount spare tires, wonderful luggage rack.

Amazing, incredible detail.

Now unfortunately, it's not a toy.

But you and your kid brothers and everything sort of thought it was.

GUEST: Three generations played with this car.

The bumpers worked well enough to stop the car, but obviously it's hit the fenders and popped the paint.

And a lot of the tire rubber has come off.

It's a lot of wear and tear, but since I have acquired it as a young man, I've taken as best care of it as I could.

APPRAISER: Well, it's great construction.

Even really amazing is the fact that the wheels are wood, and it still has some of the rubber.

It's sort of surprising also that it's just good as it is, even though you guys played with it.

You have a sense of the value, I think?

GUEST: I would think somewhere in the range of maybe $20,000, $25,000 just because of what it is.

But it's hard to put a price on something like this.

APPRAISER: It really is.

There were a series of cars, they were Hudson models and about this big, which they made about 12 or 15 of.

Highly detailed, not as great a detail as this, sold at auction for around $26,000.

This, I think easily $25,000.

And at auction, if you had a Cord Duesenberg Auburn enthusiast, easily $25,000, $35,000.

The fact also that it has the provenance, it just adds another level to it.



--Part5--
GUEST: brought in an Uncle Sam doorstop.

It's really heavy.

(chuckles) And it says "For the Open Door Policy," which, I'm not sure what that was, but it was my grandmother's, and it's been handed down for generations, and now it's mine.

And I was always told, "Don't get rid of Uncle Sam.

He's really important, he's a really unique piece."

And I don't know, really, much about him.

APPRAISER: So what we have is a cast-iron doorstop, a figural doorstop, uh, created to hold a door open.

It's hand-painted.

It's circa 1910 to 1920, American-made, but we don't know exactly where.

Most likely New England or possibly the Midwest.

That's where a lot of the cast-iron foundries who would make sad irons, doorstops, and toy novelties were located.

The base here, it's really cute.

It's a nice play on words, "For the Open Door."

The Open Door was a political policy with the superpowers or the powers-that-be at around 1899, 1900, relative to trade and tariff interactions in China.

GUEST: Oh.

APPRAISER: Uncle Sam, obviously, this proud, dapper figure here, uh, represented the United States.

We were the ones that suggested that this policy of the Open Door in, in China at the time.

We'll turn it around to show the back half here.

So, this is the flat side that would be against the door.

Now, when I first saw it, it struck me because of the overall condition, uh, which is exceptional.

GUEST: Mm-hmm.

APPRAISER: These turn up unpainted sometimes.

GUEST: Mm-hmm.

APPRAISER: But finding one that's painted in authentic paint, uh, is quite rare.

GUEST: Oh, I missed that.

APPRAISER: I can probably count, I pro, I can probably only count about five examples that I know of.

GUEST: Really?

APPRAISER: Which would probably make this the second-rarest doorstop in existence.

GUEST: Oh, stop it!

Seriously?

APPRAISER: Seriously.

(gasps) GUEST: Oh, my gosh.

(laughing) APPRAISER: Uh, the things that I'll look for... GUEST: Okay.

APPRAISER: The things that I'll look for... GUEST: Wow.

APPRAISER: ...is the crazing in the paint.

It's almost like an alligatoring or a crackling in the paint.

We can see it here.

That's a good sign-- that shows old paint.

One of the tools that we use when determining if the paint is original is a bl, a shortwave black-light U.V.

So it goes into the spectrum.

It's hard to see in open light here, but the way this lights is exactly what we want to see.

Nothing's really jumping out to suggest that the paint is tampered with or has been modified, restored, et cetera.

GUEST: When I brought it up here, I did chip a little paint off of it... APPRAISER: Okay.

GUEST: ...and it came off really easily.

APPRAISER: We definitely want to avoid any more chips.

(chuckles) Uh, actually, the rule in my household growing up was, treat every chip like it's $1,000.

(gasps) GUEST: Okay.

APPRAISER: The other rule of thumb that we've used is that the money's in the face, and his face is in great shape.

GUEST: Oh, okay.

APPRAISER: A conservative auction estimate would be from $10,000 to $15,000.

GUEST: Mm, wow.

Okay.

APPRAISER: And the... GUEST: Go, Uncle Sam.

(both laugh) APPRAISER: And the top price, uh, actually exceeded $20,000 on one that sold at auction before.

GUEST: Oh, my gosh!

Wow.

Wow-- thank you so much, that's... I can't even believe that, wow.

